Chapter 1

Outskirts of Gray City. There is my restaurant on a small hill. Location overlooking the city. Although it is a restaurant with a nice view, it actually has more drawbacks. Because it is quite far from commercial or residential districts, not many customers come to the top of the hill. That’s both a disadvantage and an advantage. This is not a world with cars. Of course, there are no bicycles, motorcycles, or airplanes. Magic and sword. And monsters. There are dungeons and hunters all mixed up. A fantasy world where empires and kingdoms exist. It has already been 15 years since I was summoned to this continent. I’m already in my early 30s. I am a wizard. He is a retired wizard. He is called the Archmage who broke through the barrier of the 9th class, the strongest class. But now he is the owner of the restaurant. Life until then was far from peace. Always a battlefield. Battlefield. Battlefield. Befitting his position as an archmage, he had to be called to numerous battlefields. War against monsters. Fighting with a dragon. The price of fighting with one’s life was not that great. They just praise him for being a hero. Tired of fighting, I decided to retire. We’ve been fighting for 15 years, so I think that’s enough. I was summoned as a childish high school student, and my life has been nothing but fighting. If I had been in Korea, my military service would have lasted just two years. Here, the real battlefield lasted for 15 years. So, I left everything and settled in Gray, a provincial city in the Luverne Empire. I accumulated 9 classes of mana, but I still haven’t found a way to return to modern times. So we have to live in this world. Remaining a wizard was far from peace. Obviously, something is going to go wrong all around. Since I was young, still in modern times, I wanted to be the owner of a small restaurant. After retirement. After working as a famous chef, he opened a small restaurant. My dream was to become a chef and attend culinary school throughout middle and high school. Planning for retirement has become a reality in a different world. Although retirement after living the life of a famous wizard rather than a chef is different from the life plan I originally dreamed of.