Chapter 2

It was only after I was recognized for cooking soju with my friends that I was able to receive various meats from Mr. Knoll’s butcher shop. He was kind enough to save me things I didn’t have. In particular, being able to get the meat you want by cut is a huge benefit. Sometimes, internal parts that are not commonly used in this world are used in cooking. But today’s journey was clearly strange. Also, the person who always went with his wife came alone. Even if they bicker all the time, it’s just an appearance. Additionally, this person has a strong craftsmanship and is not the type of person to leave the store easily. So, considering the time zone, it was clear that it was an unexpected visit. Anyway, Uva’s belly fat has been trimmed. I put cooking oil in the frying pan. All the basic things needed for cooking, such as cooking oil, pepper, salt, sugar, and soy sauce, are summoned in modern times. Summon it and place it in a container in this world. If you leave it like this, no one will feel uncomfortable. I’m just curious about the materials used. There is no electricity anyway, so summoning electronics is useless. Lightning magic is a destructive magic, so it is impossible to supply electricity. I don’t have that kind of knowledge. In order to lessen the sense of heterogeneity in the restaurant itself, kitchen utensils did not rely on summons. All of the restaurant’s household items and kitchen utensils are made using metals such as iron produced here. Various pots and large iron plates are also made in fantasy. Of course, these are not common items in this world. The difference is that it is an item made by a dwarven craftsman, making it difficult for ordinary people to obtain. But at least it was made with materials from this world and people from this world, so there is no sense of heterogeneity. Because it would be so strange for modern culture to be located in a restaurant. Anyway, while I was grilling Uva Belly in the same way as before, Mr. Knoll knocked on the table. “Hmm, what did you say? “Please give me that clear drink. ” This was again unexpected. This man judged soju the day it was first released as not palatable. But other than that, I always looked for soju every time I came. This is a man who says that beer is the best alcohol. Of course, beer exists in this world too. It is the national mainstream. Beer, distilled spirits, and fruit wine are all available. Of course, distilled spirits and fruit drinks are expensive in this world too. And one more surprising thing. Unless it is something special, it is rare to find someone in this world who drinks soju in broad daylight. So, as I felt earlier, there is something strange about Mr. Knoll today, but it is very strange. But since the customers are different, is there any other way to give it to them? I handed Mr. Knoll the soju in a transparent glass bottle. Mr. Knoll picked up the bottle of soju and started drinking it. “This means that the more you eat it, the sweeter it tastes and it feels like it helps you forget about something you don’t like. It was strange at first, but it’s not bad. Or rather, the more you eat, the better you get. Hehehe, it’s the same as my wife. “The longer we live, the more lovely my wife becomes. ” “If you’re so lovely, why don’t you treat me well on a regular basis and suddenly start drinking soju for lunch? ” Mr. Knoll waved his hand and drank soju again. “Are you sure you didn’t put anything else in this? “How can I feel this pleasant sweetness? ” “That’s the charm of that drink. ” In fact, it is true that diluted soju contains aspartame, a compound that causes a sweet taste. Distilled soju is difficult to make and expensive. The only thing used in large quantities in stores was diluted soju. In fact, it is sold at a low price and there is no burden on the person who buys it. Of course, diluted soju is a modern product. Mr. Knoll snorted but continued to drink soju. When I place the cooked pork belly in front of me, he takes a fork. After taking a bite, I look for soju again. “Wow! “Yes, I tried the other drinks you gave me, but this meat and this soju go really well together. I like it. ” “It’s already called the union of souls. ” “I know. shit! So I need to get drunk! Anyway, one dish is the best. ” Mr. Knoll, unusually, praised me while drinking and drinking meat in succession. “Mr. Knoll, are you sure something is wrong? ” No matter how I looked at it, it wasn’t normal, so when I asked for the first time, Mr. Knoll just kept his mouth shut. No matter what he says, this man is a man who always satisfies both the quality of the meat and my needs. The word craftsmanship is a perfect fit. One of the essential people for a restaurant to run properly. A person like that has been like this since lunch. But Mr. Knoll remains silent. Just keep pouring soju as it is. Only after drinking two bottles and becoming completely drunk did he begin to mutter words. “Reine is strange. “It’s strange. ” “What’s strange about you saying you love me and all that? ” “I feel like I’m cheating. ” I couldn’t help but tilt my head at the absurd statement. Ms. Laine was like a model of a good mother and good wife who treated Ms. Knoll well but respected her and only thought about her husband. A person like that is the wind. “That won’t be it. What on earth are you looking at? “Did you even see the scene in person? ” “I didn’t know until now, but every month! I used to go out one day every month. I thought I would meet a friend once a month. But I recently found out! “It seems like they decorate it even more on the days they go out, so I followed them and did it! ” “You damn woman! I was meeting an old colleague of mine! I wanted to stab myself on the spot, but I love Laine. I can’t do it without her! “Give me more alcohol! ” “Oh my gosh, Mr. Knoll. ” my head hurts. If it’s a former colleague, he’s probably talking about when he worked as a mercenary. I don’t know, but when I love you so much. So, I heard that if you don’t want to lose, there are times when you lose your cool and lose your sense of self-interest. Although it is possible because we are human. Knoll would never have believed it if he had heard it from someone else, but seeing the scene with his own eyes felt like a big deal. However, when a third party looks at it calmly, Mr. Laine is not that type of person. “Last month! And he said he was going out again today, so I’m sure he’s cheating on me again. Damn it. “I’ve been struggling for a month, but I can’t do it anymore. ” It was exactly a month ago, after I fed Mr. Knoll pork belly and got him accepted. But now was the time to stop. “Are you saying you’re going to drink and go and kill everyone? ” “I have to kill him. Kill me and I will die too! ” “Wait a minute, wait a minute. Phew. How about we find out the situation first? “I will find Mr. Laine and find out the details, so don’t get excited and just stay still. ” Mr. Knoll grunted and began to look up at me. “What kind of person is that man? ” “You damn bastard. When I was working as a mercenary, I was an indispensable comrade in arms! This is the guy who risked his life to fight! But after I quit my job, he never came to visit me. Not once! I thought it was because he was busy, but he couldn’t come because he was stuck with Laine. shit! ” “Anyway, please come in. I don’t think Mr. Layne is that kind of person. So, I’ll do some research and then you can do whatever you want. ” Mr. Knoll blinked. Although he thought that he had cheated on her because of his special love for Mr. Layne, he seemed to be unable to answer right away and was just burning inside. Although he was usually a manly man, this was my first time seeing him like this. Anyway, I consider Mr. Reine and Mr. Knoll as colleagues and I don’t want anything to go wrong. He’s also a regular. If the situation continues like this, there will be no place to find meat. So, I have to prove it first. After asking where he had seen his wife last month, I sent Mr. Knoll home. And then we headed to the second floor. There are two rooms on the second floor. One is my sanctuary, my room. Of course, there is no business in my room. I violently opened the door to the inner room. Even though there was a loud sound, the giant monster sleeping in the bed did not move. He is sleeping while making strange noises. I pulled up the blanket. I’m fucking naked. “Lurin! “It would be better to wake up when you have something good to say. ” “Wake up you job monster! ” “What is this? “When does the sun rise? Ugh, you insectivore. ” “Why are you waking me up? “I’m sleeping well. ” I rub my eyes, yawn, and stretch. I sighed and picked up the clothes lying on the floor of the bed and started putting them on. She rubs her eyes while being served by me as if it were a given. “Stop waking up. Didn’t the dragon race not sleep after sleeping for hundreds of years? Ugh, you insectivorous dragon. work work. ” “Are you taunting our dragons now? On a human subject! “He seems like a reckless bastard. ” “If you tease me, you will die. ” “Then you were ridiculed? ” “I don’t like that either! Why are you doing this from earlier? “Ugh, ” he waves his black hair and raises his black eyebrows. It’s a black wave that lets you know right away that her species is a black dragon. In this world, black hair is rather rare. Therefore, it is a hair color that makes you feel familiar with your hometown. That’s why I really like her hair color. “If you become a polymorph, you have no choice but to live with the same life rhythm as humans. So of course you have to sleep. Whoaaaam. ” “Shut up and wake up. ” I yawned and pulled Mr. Black Dragon’s lower body as he crawled under the blanket. It’s disgusting how things are being dragged along. “Why are you doing this today? “Aren’t you the one who told me to go to sleep and not run wild? ” “I woke you up because I had something to do. ” Only then did I wake up, rubbing my eyes again. He is a kid from the Black Dragon clan who makes the eastern continent their home. When converted to human years, it is nonsense to say that he is a child, but when compared to dragon years, he is no different from a child. In this world, a dragon is an absolute entity that is well known as the king of monsters and an object of fear to humans. But it was different for me. The powerful mana that arose after obtaining the Dragon Heart 10 years ago made it possible for me not to be afraid of even dragons. Of course, the heart that the Dragon Lord gave me under conditions made me stronger. Thanks to that heart, I was able to use magic that could tear the dragon apart. As a result, he got caught up in the dragon war, and that’s when he met Lulin. It is also a homeless dragon whose dragon rare was lost in the war. Lurin first appeared in the human world. Dragons are born with advanced magical knowledge. However, the dragon that is commonly thought of as knowing everything is a dragon that has experienced thousands of years of entertainment. Having spent thousands of years in the human world, they naturally have much more experience and knowledge than humans. However, because Lulin had never experienced the human world, for some reason she stayed only in Rare after she was born until she came out with me. That’s what a lack of common sense is like. “If there is another human like you, it would be a disaster for the Dragon Clan. disaster. “How can you survive even after eating dragon hearts? ” “I know. That was fascinating to me too. Even the Dragon Lord was surprised. ” “For your information, my heart is tasteless. ” “I’m not going to eat. “If I eat one more, my body will really explode. ” “Ohh? Is that something like that? ” Lulin’s eyes suddenly shine. “When I want to commit suicide, I take out a heart and feed it to you as I die. So, are we going to die together? ”